President Obama still has
eight months left in office
before his second term is up.
Naturally, this is a time
to look back
on all he's accomplished over
the past eight years.
You know, I was going to make
a joke about this, but I --
[ Laughter ]
I don't think it needs a joke.
I think it needs
to be slow jammed.
You know what I'm talking about,
Tariq?
Yeah, Jimmy.
I think you're saying you'd like
to slow jam this news.
That's right.
I wanna slow jam the news.
And I'm not the only one.
[ Cheers and applause ]
Hello.
[ Laughter ]
I'm President Barack Obama,
and I, too, would like
to slow jam this news.
Hit me eight times!
♪♪
It's been an honor
and a privilege
to serve as your president
over the past eight years.
When I first took office,
our nation was facing
one of the worst recessions
in its history.
Since then, we've added
more than 14 million new jobs
and lowered
the unemployment rate
to under 5%.
Through the actions
of my administration,
we were able to stimulate
the economy
and get our country
back on track.
Aww, yeah.
President Obama stimulated
long-term growth.
[ Laughter ]
In both the public
and the private sector.
In 2008, the country
wasn't feeling in the mood.
It was too tired, stressed,
said it had a headache.
But Barack lit some candles
and got some silky satin sheets.
♪ Silky satin sheets now ♪
Told the American people,
"Yes, we can."
♪ Yes, we can,
it's all right ♪
♪ He created tons of jobs
for you and me ♪
♪ And he's got one more left
for Hillary ♪
[ Cheers and applause ]
As president, I'm proud
of the many progressive steps
our country has taken
in recent years,
both socially
and environmentally.
The United States
has been a leader
in developing clean energy
to ensure the health of our
planet for future generations.
Thanks to
the Affordable Care Act,
an additional
20 million Americans
now have access
to quality health care.
And same-sex couples across
the country
now have a constitutional right
to marry.
[ Cheers ]
In short,
climate change is real,
health care is affordable,
and love is love.
[ Cheers and applause ]
Mm, mm, mmm.
Commander in preach!
[ Laughter ]
You gotta listen to my man,
Bareezus.
He's accomplished a lot
in eight years.
Even when Congress tried
to block him,
he found a way in
through the back door.
[ Laughter ]
When Republicans...
gave him lemons,
he made so much lemonade,
Beyoncé started calling him
"Baracky with the good hair."
[ Cheers and applause ]
♪ Baracky
with the good hair ♪
♪ His first two terms
ended in such a hurry ♪
♪ Wish he could go for three
like my man Steph Curry ♪
[ Cheers and applause ]
And now...
there will be no third term.
I can't stay forever.
Besides, Daddy's got
a Hawaiian vacation booked
in about...223 days.
[ Cheers and applause ]
But who's counting?
That being said,
the American people face
an important decision this fall.
The entire world
is watching,
and they look to us
for stability and leadership.
Now, I know some
of the presidential candidates
have been critical
of my foreign policy.
I don't want to name
any names.
♪ He's talking
about Donald Trump ♪
[ Laughter ]
But I believe
it is of the utmost importance
to work alongside
other world leaders.
That's why I signed
the Iran nuclear deal.
That's why we reopened
diplomatic ties with Cuba.
And that's why I negotiated
the new trade deal called
the Trans-Pacific Partnership,
or TPP.
Now, hold on there,
"Prez Dispenser."
[ Laughter ]
Are you saying
you're down with TPP?
Yeah, you know me.
[ Laughter ]
[ Cheers and applause ]
Look, Jimmy, the TPP
allows American businesses
to sell their products
both at home and abroad.
The more we sell abroad,
the more higher-paying jobs
we provide here at home.
It's that simple.
So -- So what
you're saying is,
this trade deal will help put
everyday Americans back to...
♪ Work, work, work,
work, work, work ♪
♪ He put us back to work,
work, work, work, work ♪
♪ He put us back to... ♪
♪ Work, work, work,
work, work ♪
[ Laughter ]
[ Cheers and applause ]
Now, Mr. President,
since you're here, I got to ask,
have you been watching all
the election coverage this week
about Donald Trump?
No, but I have been watching
my new favorite show,
"Orange
is Not the New Black."
[ Cheers and applause ]
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
I'm gonna need you
to Netflix and chill.
[ Laughter ]
I get it if you're a little
wound up after all this time.
I mean, I can't imagine
what it'd be like
to do the same job
for eight straight years.
Jimmy,
you probably never will.
[ Laughter and applause ]
♪ Does Obamacare
cover burns? ♪
♪♪
America's best days
are still yet to come.
Thank you, Mr. President,
for all that you've done.
♪ This country's on track,
and that is a fact ♪
♪ Once you go Barack,
you will never go back ♪
♪ Thank you for leading
the red, white, and the blue ♪
And that is how
we slow jam the news.
Oh, yeah.
[ Finale plays ]
Give it up
for the President
of the United States,
Barack Obama!
[ Cheers and applause ]
Double mic drop!
We'll be right back
with more of "The Tonight Show!"
Come on, everybody!
[ Cheers and applause ]